---
short_title: Using NISAR Data
---

# Using NISAR Data Overview

There are many potential usage patterns for NISAR data, from SAR scientists downloading [RRSD](#rrsd-product-overview) products to perform complex processing workflows to disaster response teams viewing [GCOV](#gcov-product-overview) products in GIS platforms. There are a range of tools and resources available for accessing, processing, analyzing and visualizing NISAR products to support this range of use cases.

## Accessing NISAR Data

NISAR data can be accessed from cloud storage, either by downloading or using cloud computing approaches to work with the data directly in the cloud. There are map-based user interfaces and programmatic solutions for finding and accessing NISAR data. Refer to [Accessing NISAR Data](#nisar-access-overview) for more information.

## Processing Software

The processing algorithms used for the NISAR Mission are included in [ISCE3](https://github.com/isce-framework/isce3), the third iteration of the InSAR Scientific Computing Environment (ISCE). ISCE3 is an open source library for processing spaceborne and airborne Interferometric Synthetic Aperture Radar (InSAR) data, and development is currently funded through the NISAR project. 

The NISAR Mission is using ISCE3 functionality to generate the products that are archived by ASF. This software package is also publicly available for users who want to script their own processing workflows, but this requires scientific programming expertise and an understanding of the principles of SAR acquisitions.

(using-gis-software)=
## GIS Software

The NISAR mission generates a number of [Level 2 and 3 products](#nisar-product-levels), which are projected to map coordinates and are suitable for use in GIS workflows. The @sar-amplitude component of the SAR dataset is particularly well-suited to GIS analysis, as it presents an image of the Earth's surface, though any of the gridded variables in the Level 2 and 3 products can be added to ArcGIS Pro. 

(gis-amplitude-products)=
### Amplitude Products

The [Geocoded Covariance (GCOV)](#gcov-product-overview) products present normalized radar backscatter in gamma-nought power. When these products are generated, a DEM is used to perform radiometric terrain correction, which adjusts for a number of terrain-based distortions caused by the side-looking nature of the SAR sensor. As a result, these products align well with other imagery and geospatial datasets. 

Amplitude values can also be extracted from [Geocoded Single Look Complex (GSLC)](#gslc-product-overview) products. These products are terrain corrected, as the topographic phase (calculated from a DEM) is removed. The key differences between the amplitude values in these products and the GCOV products is that they have not been radiometrically flattened (normalized for the surface area contributing to the backscatter), and they are in beta-nought radiometry. The values may need to be converted to either gamma-nought or sigma-nought before use in some analysis workflows. 

The GSLC products are posted to a smaller pixel spacing than the GCOV products. While this can allow users to view finer detail in the images, it does mean that they are much larger files to work with. It can take a lot longer to load the data, adjust the symbology, or run analysis workflows when using GSLCs. 

(gis-coherence)=
### Coherence 

Among the non-amplitude datasets, the Coherence layers from the [Geocoded Unwrapped Interferogram (GUNW)](#gunw-product-overview) products may be of interest to GIS users. Coherence indicates the correlation of @sar-phase measurements from one acquisition to the next, and can indicate areas that have undergone changes in surface structure. 

The pixel values of a coherence layer range from 0 to 1, with 0 indicating complete decorrelation (no overlap in the phase spectra) and 1 indicating complete correlation (no change in the phase). As such, low coherence values often indicate areas that have undergone disturbance, while high coherence values tend to indicate areas with more stable conditions.

### Soil Moisture

The [Soil Moisture (SME2)](#sme2-product-overview) products are the only [Level 3](#level-3-geophysical-products) NISAR products generated by the mission. SME2 products contain several soil moisture layers generated using different approaches, all of which are easily added to GIS projects.

### File Size and Format

NISAR files are very large, and can take a long time to load into GIS projects. If your area of interest is smaller than the full extent of the product, you may want to consider subsetting the data before using them for analysis workflows. This is particularly important if you choose to work with [GSLC](#gslc-product-overview) products. 

The [HDF5 data format](#hdf5) of the NISAR products may be unfamiliar to some users, but there are workflows for adding NISAR layers to GIS projects and performing analysis leveraging existing raster analysis tools.

### Guidance

Refer to @using-arcgis to learn how to work with NISAR data in ArcGIS Pro and @using-qgis for guidance on using NISAR data in QGIS.

## Programmatic Approaches

Users who want to develop programmatic workflows to access, analyze, and visualize NISAR data can use a range of existing open-source software packages. Functions from packages specifically designed for working with SAR data can be combined with functions from more general packages for working with raster and array data to accomplish a range of analyses and visualizations. 

Refer to the [Tutorials](#tutorials-overview) section for more information and available workflows. 
